it's an indisputable epidemic affecting
more than 220 million people worldwide
according to the world health
organization a person dies from
diabetes-related complications every 10
seconds here in the United States the
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention say of the nearly 26 million
Americans living with diabetes ninety
percent of them suffer from type 2
diabetes which is largely the result of
a diet high in sugar and excess body
weight eighty-two percent of the people
with diabetes are overweight we know
that when you exercise your chance of
getting diabetes is cut from thirty to
fifty percent in every medical school in
the world they will tell you diabetes is
in irreversible ian cable and a downward
path to degeneration disability and
ultimately death prox me 11 to 20 years
sooner wow it's pretty significant why
they don't think it's curable because
they don't understand what the cause is
and therefore they really don't
understand the treatment and in what we
find is the treatment is not trying to
lower blood sugar it's a far more
sophisticated approach and when you
understand what the cause is and you
understand and design of treatment to it
you get really powerful results a
physician and spiritual teacher dr.
gabriel cousens is the founder and
director of the Tree of Life
rejuvenation Center a holistic based
rejuvenation facility in picturesque
Patagonia Arizona that helps people live
a healthier life through healing
wellness and spirituality telling people
about it is not the same thing as
creating a surround around experience
where they could live it and will
experience with it what it means to be
an optimal health and so it was clearly
I needed to start a living center where
people could truly experience it and
that's really the whole basis what we're
doing here
our 21-day program which is not just a
diabetes program but is a general
rejuvenation program applying his
scientific background as a biochemist
and holistic physician dr. cousins has
perfected an optimal diet consisting
entirely of vegan organic live and raw
foods that reverses diabetes naturally
and the way it works is it decreases
inflammation it decreases your low
density lipoproteins and decreases your
blood sugar and it turns on the
anti-aging genes and that's all
confirmed by a variety of research
that's the power of the diet in three
weeks our average weight loss is about
20 pounds because when you're on this
live food plants are solely diet you
naturally go to your optimal weight and
what you'll see is taking it away from
diabetes it takes you into optimal
rejuvenation just by your diet lifestyle
what I'm talking about whole person
enlightenment and talking not about
anti-aging because we're really Pro
Aging in the sense that we're pros at
aging and we turn aging do you think
specifically with diabetes we offer a
21-day program where people come here
they live here and there put on a
regimen of raw organic vegan food live
food for 21 days they may be involved in
some fasting during that time and
they're introduced to meditation to
quiet their minds we also offer
conscious eating program during that
timeframe where people come in and it's
a four day intensive of how to prepare
food and what food actually does and how
to be actually really connected with
live food and get the greatest
nutritional benefit out of it but we
also provide support for them once they
leave they have periodic collins to our
nurse and access to our staff for
questions we encourage them and actually
give them addresses of local raw food
and this last robot of you and by that
time people can really create your own
habit patterns the feedback we get is
extremely positive when you go for the
place of thinking there's no cure as all
downhill and all i get is disability and
death at the end and in three weeks
people got the experience where we have
seventy percent of the people who are
not instant dependent off all the
medications people are so inspired by
what actually happens to that not only
they feel their life as we give back to
but their turn on to life I am native
american I'm a Shawnee diabetes runs in
my family and I saw the death of my
three cousins before they were 57 years
old so I knew I had to do something and
I was willing to do it and so I knew
that I did not want to dive diaries so I
seeked out different programs in
different places and one year ago I
found out about the tree of life and
their worked with diabetes so I came
here I fasted there was an option of
fasting for seven days or 15 days I got
special permission and I fasted for 15
because I felt so great after the first
seven I noticed right away my sugars
dropped amazing I could tell my
arthritis my fibromyalgia my knees
everything and the most was the clarity
of mine I felt like I had a 40 year old
brain again by the way I'm 70 years old
so I noticed that immediately and
they're really clouds lifted for my
fuzzy thinking that made me feel young
and good I work every day I work 12
hours a day if I have to I'm a chef and
I have a CEO of my own retreat center so
it's been a blessing dr. cousins did
give me my life back yes he did really
critic an enlightened juvenal
enlightened anti-aging we're seeing
people in their 60s and 70s turning onto
life in a way that just is just
beautiful that they're not only does the
life come back not only to help come
back spirit returns that people are
fighting me
and value in their life so there's just
a tenement lightness and joy that
happened to you I for people literally
are feeling 30 years younger we're
already planning to create a diabetes
prevention programs in Nigeria and Ghana
and also in Mexico as we're working also
to upgrade orphanages so our overall
goal is upgrade the consciousness and
quality of life on the whole camp it is
very gratified to see people regain
their life conscious lifestyle and diet
choices can positively impact your
health longevity and spiritual focus
learn how you can live optimally through
a holistic lifestyle and an organic low
glycemic plant source only diet contact
the Tree of Life rejuvenation Center
leading the world in live food education
spiritual fulfillment and whole person
whole planet healing for more
information go to dr cousins calm